Personal backstory:
You're the child of nobels.  You don't have amnesia, you're not a secret princess (you're an explicit prince/ess), you don't have some angsty past back story.  You're just a noble who believes in hard work and trying to rule fairly.  You were gifted an unsettled plot of land to try and build a metropolis to make your parents proud and expand the kingdom.  Your story isn't very complicated or exciting.  Good for you!

The area you settled:
Turns out, the area you settled on used to belong to a thriving kingdom that fell into dissarray and was overcome by monsters as nature reclaimed the land.  As you push through ruins you uncover their history piece by piece.  The kingdom used to be powerful, and for years rule of the land passed from parent to child peacefully, with the leaders becoming increasingly complacent.  Then, one year, disaster started to hit as powerful monsters moved in.  The king did little, but command his subjects to work harder and risk everything.  The monsters were repelled, but then crops failed.  The king had the subjects tighten their belts, but refused to go help in the fields or sacrifice his own luxury, blaming outsiders and lazy poor.  As these external threats loomed larger, the nobels demanded more from the populace while sacrificing less.  In the end, the nobel's refusal to help, and their opulant lifestyle, led to a revolt and exodus and the kingdom quickly crumbled, being devouered by nature.  All that's left is a shadow empire--either the first or last dungeon, and a leader who is too unwilling to even move to help his subjects.  

The idea here is to be a parable that reflects on how important it is that your character, as a leader, is actually going out and working on things with your subjects.  Additionally, it ties into some talk Curtis likes about how it's okay that some people get paid more money or have the corner office, as long as when shit hits the fan they step up.  This is a case where bad things happen, the leaders dodge their duty, and the populace is rightfully enraged and society suffers.  Finally, it's also a parable for the financial crash...mostly becasue that's a case where the leaders dodged their duty and the populace got rightfully enraged.

Your advisor Sir Oinksalot:
Early on you have a gentalman advisor who says he's been cursed by an evil whitch.  He has various side quests for you, such as finding his best friend (wife?) who turns out to be a pig, or gathering truffles from the forest.  It's revealed that he is actually a pig that was cursed to be a human, and when you break the spell he becomes a pig in a tophat and monicle, which sounds like the cutest image ever.  He retains the power of speech and continues advising you.

Ilyse the healer:
Pronounced I-lease (better way to spell this?), she runs the apocothary.  Between missions she will heal you and sell buffs (more attack power, etc) or healing items.  She used to be a great warrior, but has since become a healer for reasons, but she can still take care of herself in a battle.  We need to fill in the "reasons".

Heph the forgemaster:
Heph works at the forge crafting gear for you.  He's (secretly?) an ancient God who came to the mortal world to complete his masterpiece: the treadmill.  None of the other Gods believe this device is possible, and his goal is to prove them wrong for mocking him.  His quests mostly involve gathering crafting materials to unlock new equipment, and he gives advice on what gear would be best against what foes.

Valerie the war admiral:
Valerie is your war advisor.  In game, she gives you advice on the combat system and what different jobs do ("The assassin deals extra damage attacking from the back...").  I think of her personality as someone super bubbly...about murdering enemies.  Sort of like a cheerleader encouraging you to rip the enemy's eyes out and use them for a stew.  Her side quests should mostly involve slaying a certain number of enemies.  Not really sure on her backstory yet.  An easy one: powerful monster destroyed her home or family or whatever, and now she's trying to get revenge, and is enlisting your help to slay the beast/make sure no one else has to go through what she went through.